AUTHORS.rst, before:

Searx was created by Adam Tauber and is maintained by Adam Tauber, Alexandre Flament and Noémi Ványi.

Major contributing authors:

- Adam Tauber <asciimoo@gmail.com> `@asciimoo <https://github.com/asciimoo>`_
- Matej Cotman
- Thomas Pointhuber
- Alexandre Flament `@dalf <https://github.com/dalf>`_
- @Cqoicebordel
- Noémi Ványi
- Marc Abonce Seguin @a01200356

People who have submitted patches/translates, reported bugs, consulted features or
generally made searx better:

- Laszlo Hammerl
- Stefan Marsiske
- Gabor Nagy
- @pw3t
- @rhapsodhy
- András Veres-Szentkirályi
- Benjamin Sonntag
- @HLFH
- @TheRadialActive
- @Okhin
- André Koot
- Alejandro León Aznar
- rike
- dp
- Martin Zimmermann
- @courgette
- @kernc
- @Reventl0v
- Caner Başaran
- Benjamin Sonntag
- @opi
- @dimqua
- Giorgos Logiotatidis
- Luc Didry
- Niklas Haas
- @underr
- Emmanuel Benazera
- @GreenLunar
- Kang-min Liu
- Kirill Isakov
- Guilhem Bonnefille
- @jibe-b
- Christian Pietsch @pietsch
- @Maxqia
- Ashutosh Das @pyprism
- YuLun Shih @imZack
- Dmitry Mikhirev @mikhirev
- David A Roberts `@davidar <https://github.com/davidar>`_
- Jan Verbeek @blyxxyz
- Ammar Najjar @ammarnajjar
- @stepshal
- François Revol @mmuman
- Harry Wood @harry-wood
- Thomas Renard @threnard
- Pydo `<https://github.com/pydo>`_
- Athemis `<https://github.com/Athemis>`_
- Stefan Antoni `<http://stefan.antoni.io>`
- @firebovine
- Lorenzo J. Lucchini @luccoj
- @eig8phei
- Joachim Cherqui
- @maxigas
- Jannik Winkel @kiney
- @juanitobananas
- Vache Asatryan @vachi
- Luca CPZ @lcpz
- @nikaiw
- Thirnearez
- Hypolite Petovan @MrPetovan
- @woorst
- @Apply55gx
- @pyrrh0n1c
- @cclauss
- QGW @moon2l
- Pierre-Alain Toret @daftaupe
- Matthew Olmsted @icegiant
- Michael Tran @trankmichael
- Joseph Nuthalapati @josephkiranbabu
- @maiki
- Richard Didier @zeph33
- Michael Vieria @Themimitoof
- Richard Nespithal @rndevfx
- Stanislas @angristan
- @rinpatch
- g. s. @usernameisntallowed
- Léo Bourrel @bourrel
- @cy8aer
- @Popolon
- Alice Ferrazzi @aliceinwire
- @LiquidLemon
- @dadosch
- @Venca24
- @ZEROF
- Ivan Skytte Jørgensen @isj-privacore
- @miicha

Commit message:

[enh] add @pofilo & @return42 to maintainers

AUTHORS.rst, after:

Searx was created by Adam Tauber and is maintained by Adam Tauber, Alexandre Flament, Noémi Ványi, @pofilo and Markus Heiser.

Major contributing authors:

- Adam Tauber <asciimoo@gmail.com> `@asciimoo <https://github.com/asciimoo>`_
- Matej Cotman
- Thomas Pointhuber
- Alexandre Flament `@dalf <https://github.com/dalf>`_
- @Cqoicebordel
- Noémi Ványi
- Marc Abonce Seguin @a01200356
- @pofilo
- Markus Heiser @return42

People who have submitted patches/translates, reported bugs, consulted features or
generally made searx better:

- Laszlo Hammerl
- Stefan Marsiske
- Gabor Nagy
- @pw3t
- @rhapsodhy
- András Veres-Szentkirályi
- Benjamin Sonntag
- @HLFH
- @TheRadialActive
- @Okhin
- André Koot
- Alejandro León Aznar
- rike
- dp
- Martin Zimmermann
- @courgette
- @kernc
- @Reventl0v
- Caner Başaran
- Benjamin Sonntag
- @opi
- @dimqua
- Giorgos Logiotatidis
- Luc Didry
- Niklas Haas
- @underr
- Emmanuel Benazera
- @GreenLunar
- Kang-min Liu
- Kirill Isakov
- Guilhem Bonnefille
- @jibe-b
- Christian Pietsch @pietsch
- @Maxqia
- Ashutosh Das @pyprism
- YuLun Shih @imZack
- Dmitry Mikhirev @mikhirev
- David A Roberts `@davidar <https://github.com/davidar>`_
- Jan Verbeek @blyxxyz
- Ammar Najjar @ammarnajjar
- @stepshal
- François Revol @mmuman
- Harry Wood @harry-wood
- Thomas Renard @threnard
- Pydo `<https://github.com/pydo>`_
- Athemis `<https://github.com/Athemis>`_
- Stefan Antoni `<http://stefan.antoni.io>`
- @firebovine
- Lorenzo J. Lucchini @luccoj
- @eig8phei
- Joachim Cherqui
- @maxigas
- Jannik Winkel @kiney
- @juanitobananas
- Vache Asatryan @vachi
- Luca CPZ @lcpz
- @nikaiw
- Thirnearez
- Hypolite Petovan @MrPetovan
- @woorst
- @Apply55gx
- @pyrrh0n1c
- @cclauss
- QGW @moon2l
- Pierre-Alain Toret @daftaupe
- Matthew Olmsted @icegiant
- Michael Tran @trankmichael
- Joseph Nuthalapati @josephkiranbabu
- @maiki
- Richard Didier @zeph33
- Michael Vieria @Themimitoof
- Richard Nespithal @rndevfx
- Stanislas @angristan
- @rinpatch
- g. s. @usernameisntallowed
- Léo Bourrel @bourrel
- @cy8aer
- @Popolon
- Alice Ferrazzi @aliceinwire
- @LiquidLemon
- @dadosch
- @Venca24
- @ZEROF
- Ivan Skytte Jørgensen @isj-privacore
- @miicha
